{
  "lang": "en",
  "availableLangs": [
    "en"
  ],
  "content": "April Dunford has positioned hundreds of products so far in her career and helped redefine how we think about positioning itself. She's the author of Obviously Awesome and with its upcoming expanded edition, she joins us today to break down what great positioning looks like. Welcome April. >> It's awesome to be here. Thanks for having me. You've mentioned in your book and posts that it's worth taking the time to define what positioning is before you dive into a conversation about positioning. So, I was wondering if we could do a >> let's start there. >> Yeah, let's do it. You know, it's it's a funny thing positioning like so here I am. I'm the positioning expert, right? So, and generally I'm selling at tech companies and so I'll meet the founder or the CEO and they'll be like positioning I know what that is. it's messaging. And I'll say, \"No, well, but not really, actually.\" Like, if we were to do messaging, I would say, \"Well, I can do messaging, but I got to ask you some questions first. Who is this message for? And who do you compete against? And how do you win against those people? And what makes your stuff so special?\" We wrote a message around that. Positioning in my mind defines these inputs that we use for messaging and all kinds of things. So, my definition looks like this. Positioning defines how your product is the best in the world at providing something some value that a well- definfined set of customers cares a lot about. Another way to think of it is it's a little bit like context setting for products. Like context is kind of how we make sense of the world, but in particular things that we've never figured out before. Positioning helps people understand what bucket should this product live in and why should I pay attention to it. The great story from the book was the violinist playing. Was he a violinist? Yeah. >> You want to tell that just high level that story? >> Yeah. This is a a really famous story. The Washington Post did this experiment. They called it an experiment in in perception and attention. But it was with this violinist called Joshua Bell. And so at the time Joshua Bell was probably one of the most famous violinists on the planet. He's regularly selling out concert halls for $300, $400 a ticket. And so the experiment was we're going to take this famous violinist. We're going to have him play out in front of a busy metro station. And the experiment is, you know, is anybody going to notice that the music is better than it normally is? That was the first thing. And then the second thing is, would he make more money as a street performer than a regular, you know, guy off the street playing whatever? And so they dressed him down, you know, in a ball cap and a sch slumpy shirt. They put him in front of the subway station and he plays his guts out for three hours and and he made I I can't remember the exact number, but it's like $32.73. Not so good really. And then when they looked and hardly anybody even stopped to listen to him play, two people slowed down and at the very very end, if you watch the video, one woman recognized him because she had seen him in concert the week before. And so at the very end, she came by and went, \"What the heck is going on?\" Walked over and said, \"I know you. You're Joshua Bell.\" But she was the only one. And so the interesting thing about it was, you know, you may have thought, \"Okay, well maybe maybe people just didn't have any change or maybe they're late for work. You know, just because he didn't make a lot of money and people didn't stop doesn't mean that they didn't necessarily notice that the music was way better.\" So they went around and they interviewed people that were exposed to him playing. And so there was a lottery kiosk on the other side of the square and there were people standing in line to buy a lottery ticket, right? So they went and they interviewed these people. They were like, \"Hey, notice anything different about the music this morning?\" And the responses were hilarious. Like there was one guy could tell you exactly the numbers he played on his lottery ticket. And they said, \"Well, what did you think about the guy playing?\" He said, \"I don't know. It's just some guy trying to make a buck.\" And then they had the best was they had the shoe shine lady. So there's a lady in the corner and she's shining has a shoe shine stand and she's there every day and they went over to her and they said, \"Hey, did you notice anything different about the music this morning?\" She said, \"Oh yes, I did. That guy was making such a racket. I was going to call the cops and make him stop.\" So you're like, \"What happened? What happened?\" And the answer is the guy was undone by his context. He was undone by his context. We're not expecting the music to be good. If I'm the shoe shine lady, I look across the plaza and what do I see? I see the guy in his baseball cap and his sch slumpy shirt and he's standing beside the garbage can and I just look at that and say, \"Nothing to see here. Street performer, right?\" But I take that same person and I put them in a concert hall in a tuxedo and you paid $400 for the ticket and I got a program that says he won all kinds of awards and he's a child prodigy since the age of three and blah blah blah blah. and you're going to go, \"Oh my gosh, that guy's a genius.\" Positioning is a bit like this. It's a bit like this. When we think about context setting, >> even a worldclass product can be perceived as something that's just nothing special if I position it in the wrong context. >> That's a great comparison. When you are about to drop this expanded edition of the book, I'll hold it up. >> So exciting. Yeah. >> Why now? What what made you want to revisit this topic now? >> So many reasons. So many reasons. Okay. Reason number one, let me tell you. So the book is six years old, seven years old. When I first wrote that book, well, okay, first of all, I'd never written a book before. So I didn't know what the heck I was doing. So I I and it and it was a terrible experience to tell you the truth because I wrote the book. I thought it was perfect. Like when I gave it to the editors, I was like, \"Put a bow on it. it's perfect. You just publish that sucker. And they redlined the entire thing and sent it back to me. And I realized that I had written an incomprehensible pile of crap. And so then I went back and I spent two months and I rewrote it and I had great editors, thank goodness. And they, you know, and I feel like they really wo some gold out of that straw. Anyway, so we got to something that was pretty good. I did not expect to sell a lot of copies to be honest. Like when I first approached publishers with the idea for the book, the publishers hated it. They were all like, \"Positioning is this old topic. We already got a book on positioning. It was published in 1982. Why do we need another one?\" you know, and they kind of didn't see my vision for this thing, which was, yes, there was a lot written about positioning, but what I wanted to do is have a book that was kind of an instruction manual of how to do it, like step one, step two, step three, because I was wrestling with that as an in-house head of marketing. So anyway, so I put the book out expecting maybe I'll sell a few hundred copies of this thing made into my own consulting clients or people that can't afford to hire me as a consultant would read the book instead and self-s serve it and I could have less coffee meetings trying to explain to founders this totally complicated thing in like an hour over cappuccinos and and that was the idea and then it ended up selling a ton of copies like as of right now if you add up paperbacks and audio books and ebooks books. It's over a 100,000 copies of that book, which is kind of amazing when you think it's a bit of a nichy topic. I'm really only talking about B2B tech companies. I'm only talking about positioning. There's kind of an incredible number of copies. So, so that was great news. The bad news is that all these people read the book and people had feedback and the feedback was not all good. So, people have opinions. A lot of times people will have tech people have opinions. Let me tell you, they're not shy about sharing them. So, I started noticing the places where people got confused. You know, I would get these emails that would say, \"Hey, I'm looking at page 10 and whatever and you said this.\" And I'd read it and say, \"Yeah, I can totally see why you didn't understand that.\" And I'd be like, you know, and I' and I'd send them sending these email back saying, \"I know that I said that, but what I meant was this other thing, dude.\" So that was one thing but if it was just that alone I don't think I would have bothered updating the book but but that was one thing. The second thing was that when I wrote the book I had had quite a lot of experience doing positioning stuff. Like I had worked inhouse for 20 some odd years and as an in-house marketing person I had launched a dozen or so products. So I had my own experience working in-house but then I'd also been working as a consultant for two three years. So, I had worked with a few dozen clients and I had taught a lot of courses on this stuff and so I thought, \"Yeah, I've got my arms around this. I get how to teach it. I get where people get stuck. I get all this stuff.\" But then I put the book out and then it started selling a lot of copies. So then I started working with a lot more clients. Fast forward now, I've worked with hundreds of companies and there's a handful of things that I guess you would call them patterns that I see now after I've done 300 companies that I didn't see when I had done 50. And after thinking about it for six, seven years, it's like, wow, these are really repeatable. Like, I see these over and over and over again. Some of the things I touched on them in the book, but I didn't go that deep on them. Some of them I didn't even touch it at all. So I thought, well, it would be good at some point to update that book and add all this extra stuff because I'm smarter now about these things. Then we could put that in the book, too. The other thing that happened was when at the time when I wrote the book, I was working a lot with earlier stage companies like series A, well what we used to call series A, series B. I don't know what a series is anymore, but but smaller companies. And for the most part, they were single product companies. After the book came out and people started to know me better, I started getting calls from bigger companies. And there's a distinct set of challenges if you're a multi-product company when it comes to positioning that I didn't touch on at all in the first version of the book. So I thought, okay, so after six, seven years, the book's still selling really well. I thought, you know what? Before I'm done with this positioning thing, I'm going to go back and update that book and just shove everything I know in there and fix all the fix all the confusing stuff, add the second set of patterns that I'm seeing now that I've done way more companies, and then maybe add a little bit more flavor for folks that are in a multi-product company that are trying to do something that's a little bit trickier. So, that's what you're going to get, maneuver. It's the doover. I'm excited about it. How cool is it that you're you've been learning and growing and you're able to say, \"Oh, things okay, I see things differently now.\" And go back and do it. I >> Yeah, you we don't get a doover in a lot of things in life, but it turns out in a book, you can get a doover. You call it a second edition. There you go. >> And that'll be coming out soon. >> Soon. It should be like mid to late February 2026. This is what we're aiming for. But you know what? It's Amazon's world and we just live in it. So, we'll see when it comes out. Don't send me a note complaining because it's February 28th and you haven't seen it yet. >> We might time this. It might be the same day that this comes out. What? What? >> Go to Amazon right now and check and report back. Is it there or not? >> Leave a comment. Did you buy it? In one of your posts this week, you talk about if you guys aren't subscribed to her Substack, it's wonderful. There's it's like a treasure trove of guides and fun little stories. So, go there. In your post this week, you talk about the first steps someone should take before diving into positioning. Positioning. That's my accent coming up. >> Can you break that down for us? >> Yeah. So, there's So, this came from me rethinking the way I talked about the positioning process. So in the original book I talk about positioning and I break it apart into five component pieces and then the process has 10 steps. Now I didn't think that was a problem but let me tell you numbers people think that's a problem. So I got a lot of emails that were like April it should be five components and five steps. Why is it five components and 10 steps? We don't like this. The numbers don't match. Complain >> 5 A and five 5 A and 5B. Oh my gosh. And so that got me thinking about is it really 10 is it really 10 steps or is it five steps? And in fact, the more I got thinking about it, the first few steps were really things you do before a positioning exercise to get ready for a positioning exercise. And then the last couple steps were things you do after the positioning exercise is done. So I rearranged it so we now have five components and five steps. >> Oh gosh. Let's thank you so much. >> Thank you. Never send me that email complaining about that again. All of you out there listening, five and five, I hear you. >> I've changed. And anyways, so in the pre-work, I kind of have the pre-work separated into two things. So the first one is there's a set of decisions you have to make before you start at all like before you even assemble a team, before you do anything on this positioning. And it consists of a set of things. So one is is now the right time to do positioning. So this is one of you know and a lot of people that call me that say hey bro we want you to work on positioning. I say okay great now are you in market with this product? Have you sold any of this product is almost always my first question >> because if we're not in market with the product and we haven't sold it yet then we don't actually know that much like what we have. We could do the positioning process and come up with positioning but what we would have is a positioning thesis. it would just be our best guess. And in my experience, when I was working in-house, we always had a thesis and but we were never right. Like sometimes we were close and sometimes we were way the heck off. Like nowhere close. And so in my mind, if what we're doing is doing positioning to get a thesis, I think that's a worthy thing to do. But I would not pay a consultant to come in and help me do it because it's just a thesis. It's probably going to change. So, I wouldn't spend a lot of money on that. In fact, I wouldn't spend any money on that. I'd do that internally. And I would treat it like a thesis, meaning we would look at it internally, but I wouldn't necessarily put it on my homepage like, \"Hey, this is exactly what this thing is because we know it's going to change.\" And I think it actually works well to keep your positioning kind of loose and feel where the market pulls you a little bit. So, that's the first thing. Do you really want to get the big team together and say, \"Okay, we're doing our positioning. we're going to really nail this thing when you haven't even really launched it yet. I think you'd be better to just work out a thesis. It's a rough idea. Here's who we think we compete with. Here's how we think we're different. This is the value we think we can deliver. This is who we think is going to love this. Now, let's go out and see is that true? So, that's one thing like you should figure out is now a good time to do it. Second thing is like a lot of people come into positioning and they're not really clear whether they're doing positioning for customers or positioning for investors or >> those are not the same. >> They are not the same. Not the same at all. In fact, so if you're positioning for investors, I mean investor is a particular kind of audience with particular things that they care about. So what they're looking at is is this going to be a big big business in the future? How is this going to disrupt the market that it's in? Not today necessarily, but five years from now, 10 years from now, because they're making a long-term investment. Customer, on the other hand, wants to know, hey, I'm giving you my cold, hard cash today, and I'm not swapping that for tomorrow's promises. I'm swapping that for whatever you're selling me today. And if you come and you say, hey, I got this amazing thing, but it's not going to ship for three years. The customer is going to go, \"Great. Come back when you got it, buddy. I'm not buying it now.\" When what I found when we're doing a positioning exercise, if we don't explicitly talk about that at the beginning, then what you'll have is some people in the room will be saying, \"Oh, this is for investors, right?\" And then you got to go, \"Whoa, whoa, step back. No, let's go back to the beginning and let's all be clear. This is for customers.\" The other thing is I don't know what works for positioning for investors. You know what? I think I would be a very wealthy person if I did. And I've never seen anybody with a a structure of an investor pitch that really works for everybody. And there's lots of theories on this, but I think there's a bit of alchemy to that. Positioning for customers on the other hand, I know how to do that. So, if you're using my process is intended for customers. If you're doing something for investors, God love you. I don't know how to do that. I'm not sure anybody does. I think there's some magic involved there, but that's a different kind of a pitch. So, those are two things. The other thing I think that's important coming back to this idea that you might have multiple products is are you positioning the product or the company or are you positioning some combination of products. So if you're a single product company then in my opinion the product the positioning of the product and the company are the same. These are not two separate things or at least they shouldn't be like why would you make it so hard for yourself? You know, if I'm if I'm a company and I just sell one thing, there's no difference between the company and the product. >> But if I sell two things, >> if I sell two things, now there's a question. Well, what are we positioning? Are we positioning just one product? Are we positioning the company, which is the umbrella positioning that encompasses everything that all your products can do? And then, of course, you might have something even more complicated than that, that we have a suite of things. And so before you go into the positioning exercise, you need to actually make some decisions about go to market strategy. Like how do we want customers to buy? Do we want them to buy everything all at once? Do we expect that they would buy one thing first and then we would position everything else as an add-on or cross-ell, you know? So we got to make this decision first and then decide what we're going to position. Like if everything's an add-on or cross-ell, then we're going to position the main thing first and then we can position everything else with the assumption that the customer has already bought this thing. But if it's a platform or a suite or some kind of combination of products, well, that's different. Now, we're positioning them all together. So again, there's a set of decisions that I think it's important to make before you even start positioning. >> It can feel slow or boring or like why do we have to stop and do this? How do you get founders to say this has to happen first? >> Yeah, you know this the decisions that you have to make before you do the position exercise like most of the time these decisions aren't hard. you just need to make them. Like we just need to say, \"Hey, like because if we don't then people will what you'll do is you'll get halfway down the positioning process and then someone will say wait a second I thought we were doing this for investors >> or they'll say wait a second like why are we positioning all these things together? That's not how we sell it. Everybody always buys this thing first and then they worry about the other thing and then what are you going to do? You're going to have to go all the way back to the beginning and then start again.\" So I think we just need to agree at the beginning. Okay. Is this for customers? Yes. Okay. Are we positioning this thing because it's the lead product? Yes. Or no, we actually want to position the whole suite. Okay, fine. Let's get the whole suite. The So, it's usually this is easy peasy stuff. And a lot of times when companies call me, I'm asking those questions and a lot of the times the company knows the answer. Like they'll just be like, \"Yes, no, yes, no.\" Sometimes they'll be like, \"Oo, actually, we never really thought about that.\" And then they need to actually go figure that out. >> Or we've just kind of let that be a thing we haven't addressed yet. >> Yeah, that's right. >> When you talk about three different types of positioning, you had the head-to-head where you go after the category leader. >> Yeah. >> The big fish in a small pond where you try to take a small piece of a market and then >> creating your own game or category design. >> Yes. Yes. >> Do you have a favorite or one that's the most fun for you? >> That's a good question. The vast majority of the companies that I work with, this is not a symptom of the companies that I work with. This is actually the vast majority of successful companies on the planet in the early stages of their existing are doing this big fish small fond thing because it's the fastest path to success. It's the easiest way to crack into a market where you come in and you say, \"Look, we're CRM for grocery stores. I know what a CRM is. I know what a grocery store is. I okay your CRM for grocery stores. I got a starting point and now you can pitch me whatever your CRM for grocery stores is. If I come in, you know, and do this category design thing. This is a little bit like me coming in and saying what I've got is the it's called lettuce and you're like oh what's that? And I'm like it's for grocery stores and you know and then I got to explain what it is without saying referencing any existing categories. So, I got to explain what this thing is from scratch. And so, category creation is actually really, really hard. There's the vast majority of companies that are successful with category creation are companies that are already category leaders in the existing category they play in. And what they're actually doing is expanding the boundaries of it and saying, \"Okay, we absolutely dominate this space. Now, we're going to, you know, define it as a bigger space and we'll define the category as something bigger.\" That makes a lot of sense. But if you're an early company, you know, there's a and there's established categories all around you and then you want to establish your own new category. It's not that that's impossible, but there's very few examples of companies that set out to create a category, successfully created the category, and then live to be the leader in that category. So most of the successful companies that we know and love today were not category creators. Like Google did not create the s search category. There were lots of companies in there, asspace was a thing long before Facebook showed up and Facebook showed up and essentially wedged into the market with a big fish small pond and then swallowed them up. And this is true of almost every BlackBerry did smartphones for years before Apple showed up and wiped them off the face of the earth. So, it's very difficult to do category creation and have that actually be successful. But that said, if we're in an emerging market, like there's some new technology, there's that that has enabled new stuff that we couldn't actually do before, often you have no choice but to create a market category because attempting to position it in any existing category kind of underells what you do. And so you don't have any choice. So, if I look at the clients that I work with, about one in 10 end up being category creation situation because the thing is really innovative and it's new and it doesn't really fit anywhere else. The others are typically big fish, small pond, the head-to-head one, which is the third style. You would only ever do this if you were number two in the market already and you see some weakness in the category leader for some reason and you're going to attempt to take them on at their own game and beat them at their own game. >> When is it a trap to stay in an existing category versus create another one? >> Here's the thing. The key to good positioning is really understanding what your differentiated value is. So what is the value that you can deliver to a customer that no other product can? And so first thing you got to get really tight on that. What what is it we deliver that no one else can? And then once we understand that then we can take a step back and say okay well who cares a lot about that? Like what kind of businesses care about that if I'm selling the businesses? Like what are the characteristics of a target account? Make them really care about the value they're only going to get from us. Now I got the value. I've got the target account. Then I think I can stand back and say, \"All right, is there an existing category that works here?\" So if I say I'm a database, does that take a customer and point them at my value or does it kind of point them somewhere else and now my marketing and sales team have to say, \"No, no, we're not that. No, no, no, over here.\" Like I use database as an example is company that I worked with early in my career and we were selling this thing and it was a database. It was founded by two guys with PhDs in database technology. They're database guys. We're selling a database and we got this fancy new database. It's got this patented algorithm thing that allows it to do a certain kind of query super super super fast like a thousand times faster than a regular database. And so when we went out to sell the thing, we'd be like, \"Hey, we got this cool database.\" And the problem with that, there was just so many problems with that. One was everybody had a database. And not only that, most companies didn't want to have multiple databases. They wanted to standardize on one database. And we come in and say, \"But hey, we we're this database that could do this special thing really good.\" And they're like, \"I don't know if we want that because we already have a database to do all the things.\" and you know you're coming in trying to do this special thing. If we had really taken a step back and said what's the value we can deliver? Well, we had this you know we had this patented thing that allowed us to do this certain kind of query really really fast. Well, if you looked at the type of query we were doing it's really an analytic query. So then you'd say well okay how is a company doing analytic queries today? Back in those days, they would use data warehouse to do that, which is not the same thing as a database. And back then, there wasn't a lot of packaged data warehouse software to do it with. So, they would build their own data warehouse. >> So, they would have database software and then they'd be tinkering around building the data warehouse. So, we were comparing ourselves to the wrong thing. So, we were putting ourselves in this database bucket and then trying to explain how we could do this analytic query blah blah blah. In the end, what we did was we switched our positioning and said, \"No, what we are is a data warehouse.\" Then all of a sudden, it was way more clear what we were doing that we weren't trying to do any kind of query. We were just trying to do this analytic type query. And we could say, \"Look, instead of having to build your own, we're going to give you a packaged one. And that's going to save you a lot of time, energy, and effort to do it.\" But the key to getting that category right was understanding the value. So, we had never done that work before. like we like everyone had just been like we're a database we're database people we're selling it that's what we are what else could we be like nobody ever questioned that but then when you saw how badly it worked positioning us in the database category you're like okay we could do better than that and then you're like okay what category should we be in we should be in the category that are where our value is obvious and so if you get your arms around your differentiated value and you look at the category and say that that's just fundamentally not what solution in that category does, then you got to be in a different category. >> And so sometimes if what you do is so new and so interesting and oh my gosh, there just isn't anything out there like that, then you're going to be forced to create a new category to hold it. >> Let's talk about velocity. Content's pumping out. Product cycles are faster. Everything's you got competitors tomorrow. How does this speed change positioning? >> So here's the thing. If you go to marketing school and they teach you about positioning, most of what you're going to learn is about consumer packaged goods and they're going to say, \"Look, this here's the way it works in consumer packaged goods. I got toothpaste for babies.\" So, I got baby toothpaste. Here it is. Right now, if I come out, if I decide I'm going to make toothpaste for old lady dentures, I don't say this is toothpaste for babies and old ladies. I come out with a new toothpaste. Now, it's going to have a new package, new position, new everything. Product might be the same actually, but you wouldn't attempt to stretch that one product. You would just say, \"Look, I got another product and this one is for denture people, denture wares in tech.\" And particularly in B2B tech, we often start out selling a product to a set of buyers that is the market we can reach right now with the product that we have right now. But we have this expectation that this product is going to grow and evolve, you know, be greater and greater every year that 10 years from now it's probably delivering a completely different value possibly to a completely different set of buyers. And so we expect our positioning to change. We expect it to change. Consumer package goods, like you won't learn that in marketing school. If you go to marketing school, they won't teach you that. But in tech, this is normal. We're all doing this. >> And so generally what we have is there's the product the way it stands right now. There's the all singing, all dancing thing we want it to be in the future, which is what we sold the VCs. >> Yes. >> Just this thing. And then we have a strategy that gets us from A to B. And that strategy says, \"Okay, a year from now, we're going to release this thing and it's going to look like this.\" And at that point, we maybe we were still just selling SMBs at that point, but at that point, we're that we're going to be able to go to the mid-market now. So, we're now we're going to sell to these guys in the mid-market. And then we're going to build this other thing. And before we couldn't sell the banks, but now we're going to sell the banks, so we're going to reposition this thing and say, \"Now it's for banks and whatever.\" And and then 10 years from now, we'll have this other thing. And most of the companies I worked in, we had that. We had the thing we were now. We had the thing we were selling the VCs. We had this strategy. We had a product road map. And then there's the the reality of the real world, right? The things are happening every day that we couldn't predict. Competitors are doing stuff that we didn't predict. Things like, you know, new technology pops up like AI that we thought we had our arms around it. Maybe we didn't. And then the road map's going to have to change and the plan is going to have to change and maybe the positioning is going to have to change with it. So we should expect that. We should expect that. So in the companies that I work with and even before I was a consultant when I was inhouse we would do the positioning to sort of take into account as much as we we knew about the present. So we would say basically we were trying to answer the question why pick us over the other guys right now with the product we have right now in the market the way it looks right now. We can we could guess a few steps into the future and say, \"Well, we got a release. We know it's coming out in eight months. We know exactly what it's going to do. We don't think the competitors are going to catch up to us.\" We could include that. But if we started to look too far in the future, like two years in the future, we're probably wrong and it wouldn't make sense for us to position for that because we can't sell it. We don't have that yet. So, we're going to position for the stuff that we have right now. Now the way we did it when I was working in-house is we would get a cross functional team together. We would do that positioning and then every six months we would have a check-in and so it's 6 months later we get the gang back together and we do like a speedrun of the positioning process and we'd say okay is anything changed? So you know six months ago this is what the competitor list looked like. Is it different now? And six months ago, our differentiated capabilities were these things. Did they catch up to us? Did maybe we released a new thing that allows us to get do something that we couldn't do before? Has this list of differentiated capabilities changed? And then has that changed the value that we can deliver customers that the other guys can't? Our differentiated value. If the answer was no to all those questions like competitors are kind of the same, features changed a little bit but not too much. Value is the same, we're just strengthening that value. Then we don't touch the positioning. Positioning doesn't change. But if we come back and we look like, no, these guys have caught up. This is this the value has changed. Well, then we got to go back to the drawing board and change the positioning. Now, you might think, oh my gosh, well, you know, we got a product release every week around here, buddy. There's things are changing all the time. Wouldn't we just be changing the positioning all the time? And the reality is not generally like even though individual little features are changing a lot in the short term, the features tend to contribute to some big value themes. And the big value themes don't tend to move that quickly, even though the features do. And so those tend to be measured more in years than in months. Although there's there's always a risk that something weird can happen in the market where we're truly surprised. And then we call the emergency positioning meeting, get everybody together and say, \"Okay, cards up in the air.\" I had a I had a company once where we had this great positioning. We had a strategic partnership with MySQL. And so we had this great positioning. We're doing all this stuff with them and that was working really good. And then MySQL got acquired by Sun and that was bad for our position. So we kind of had to go call the emergency meeting, go back to the drawing board, rejig the positioning. And that worked great for I don't even know how long that lasted. not even a year and then Sun got acquired by Oracle. >> And not only did Sun get acquired by Oracle, but we were still positioning quite hard in around our integration with MySQL. Well, Oracle was making all these noises about maybe we're going to fork it, maybe we're going to do stuff with it and the MySQL community was freaking out and so we had to completely deposition away from MySQL. So that was two big positioning shifts in the span of a year and a half for things that we could never have predicted. we, you know, we could never have predicted that. And so I think you just have to be ready for that. You know, at the same time, I could point to you to a product, the first product I ever worked on, which was over 20 years ago. That product was eventually acquired by SAP. It was a very successful product in its heyday and I think was just sunset last year. But if you looked at the landing page for that product, the positioning was not that different from what we had positioned it 20 years prior. So what does that tell you? We don't really know, right? The best we can do is just check in on it. And if we think there's a need to change it, we change it. If there isn't, we let it run. >> Pre-book those calendar meetings for six months out because you'll forget. >> That's what you should do. Yes. >> Get meta for a moment here. You've positioned countless products. >> Yes. Then you positioned yourself as the authority globally on positioning. >> It's so meta. >> What did you learn about personal branding and positioning when you did it to yourself? >> Yeah. I mean, you would be like it would be pretty bad if you were the positioning consultant. You didn't position yourself very good. >> Yeah. Basically, anyone who shows up and isn't on the you're on the first page of every search. So you've done it very you've positioned quite well. >> Here's the thing. In my opinion, I think you know as an expert, which is what I'm trying to position myself as, as an expert in a narrow thing, it's kind of the same as positioning a really nichy product in that you just get really clear on what you do, which also involves being really clear on what you don't do. So in the early days when I was trying to figure out what I was going to focus on as a consultant, I did a little bit of this, a little bit of that. But once I decided to settle on positioning, I just said no to all the other work. Now, I had the luxury of being able to do that because I was doing this later in my career, so I wasn't starving to death. And I don't know how you say no as much as I did if you were 25 and starving to death. But but I had the luxury of being able to say no. Like people would come and say, \"Hey, do our messaging.\" And I go, \"No, I don't do that.\" \"Hey, do our customer research.\" \"No, I don't do that.\" \"Hey, do our homepage.\" \"No, I don't do that.\" And just doing the one thing that I thought I was really good at. The advantage of that is you get the reps in. So, you end up working with a lot of companies doing the same thing over and over and over again, which makes you really good. Like, it makes you really good. And so, there's this kind of virtuous cycle that happens. you know, you're only doing this kind of work. You're getting very, very good at that kind of work. You get really well known for doing just that kind of work because you tell everybody, I only do this kind of work, otherwise don't call me. >> And then because you get known for that particular thing, anytime it comes up in conversation, people point at you. You start ranking on searches and stuff like that. Everybody gets to know you as this person that does this one little thing. And then the end result of that is because you know you're in demand and then you can raise the rates. And this is what we all want to do when we're in consulting is not work all that much and charge a lot of money. And then the the last secret of this is is just stick it. That's actually the hard part in some ways because >> stick you will just keep doing it. >> Okay. >> So I see a lot of consultants they do a thing and they're doing pretty good for a year and then they're like I'm sick of that thing now. I'm going to go do something else. and just when their positioning starting to hit, >> then they're like, \"Yeah, I'm not that anymore. I'm gonna be this other thing.\" And it's okay. You're starting back from the beginning. So, if you're gonna pick something that you think you're going to keep, you're gonna still like in five years. >> The human otherwise it's gonna Yeah. Otherwise, it's going to drive you crazy. So, if I look at my positioning, it's really narrow. Like, I only do positioning work. I don't do messaging. There's all kinds of things I don't do. I only do positioning work. I only work with B2B tech companies only product companies. I at the beginning I did a handful of services businesses and I will do a service business if they're a special special case but for the vast majority are product companies. Not only that, they're enterprise product companies meaning they've got a sales team. There's a saleserson involved somewhere in a typical deal. So I mean that's pretty narrow. It's pretty narrow. And then you got to be a certain size. like if you're way too small and you haven't got the thing in market yet, then you're too small for me. And then my, you know, my pricing at this point kind of eliminates really super early stage folks. But, you know, that's what the book and everything else is for. I think folks that are really early stage can kind of self-s serve. I don't think they need a fancy consultant to come in and do it for them. So, that's pretty narrow positioning. And I've never tried to monetize anything else. Like, you know, people come and say, \"Can we sponsor your podcast?\" Or I'm like, \"I'm not a podcaster. I have a podcast, but that's not the business. The business is this positioning thing, right? So, if I started sponsoring the podcast, well, now I'm in the podcasting business and I'd have to think about that. Or people say, \"Well, why don't you sponsor your newsletter?\" I'm like, \"Because I'm not in the newsletter business. The newsletter drives the consulting for the other thing.\" So, so some people I think have there's this advice that people give to consultants that say it's good to have lots of income streams and I'm against that. I think that's bad advice. But my at least it hasn't been my experience. My experience is if you get really laser focused on one thing, you know, you get really really good at that one thing. All your attention is on that one thing. Everything else you're doing is in service to that one thing and that's how you get your rates up and that's how everybody knows you and that's how your pipeline's always full and then you just do that for 10 years. Easy >> playbook. It's a great segue. We're going to link to your Substack to your podcast to your website as well. And guys, the book which will be out maybe on the day that this podcast comes out. Maybe the next >> I'm pretty excited about it just because a lot of things in that book were driving me a little bit crazy. So, I'm going to be excited when it's just out there and I don't have to answer any of those emails anymore. >> Round as long as we expect another round. >> I know. I'm really worried about I'm really worried that I've screwed it up and I've created more problems than I've actually solved and that two weeks after the thing is out they're going to be like, \"Yeah, on page 26 you said this thing.\" And I'm like, >> \"Do a debrief.\" >> I hope not. >> So, some fun wrap-ups. What's one thing you've been reading or watching or listening to that's that you've been loving lately? >> You know what? I've been going through a bit of a sci-fi phase. >> Yeah, I have. I never used to like sci-fi. I used to be like very much u big fiction person but I don't know somehow I went into the sci-fi thing and now I'm all sci-fi all the time to the point where people in my family are making fun of me. So did you see that series Foundation? Oh my god so good. So not like the book but also so good. And then and then I'm reading a book right now by this guy called AdrienChaikovski called Children of Time which is like this sci-fi book that's so creative. It's so creative that I'm like what a neat idea. This guy's what happens if we populated a planet with like super smart spiders? >> I think that's what my the because he has it on he has it on tape. So while he's doing stuff around the house, the stories of the spider things of the >> spider thing downstairs, I'm going to run down and be like, you're not the only one. >> Oh my gosh. You know what's the worst part about reading science fiction? You read a bunch of science fiction and then you go and read a not science fiction book. Like I read this book called Hitch. It's kind of funny. You should read it. But but you read a book that's not science fiction and you keep waiting for the science fiction to show up. You're like, \"Oh, there this is where the aliens show up.\" And then there's no aliens, no time skip, no nothing. You're like, \"What? That's it? Just >> you're just out on a date?\" >> You're like, \"That's so boring.\" Yeah. >> Okay. So, we'll check out Children of Time and Hitch will be something else just for funsies. And then what's one thing that >> if you want a good laugh, if you want to actually feel joy in your heart? >> Okay. AdrienChaikovski at the end of the I read another book by him and at the very end he has his book picture and this is the most sci-fi person I've ever seen in my life. If you talk about positioning if you wanted to create a character and that character was a sci-fi author they would have the book head shot of AdrienChaikovski. So there's a >> And then in terms of is there anything this year that you're trying to learn or excited to work on? So, a handful of things I So, like I say, I have this new version of the book out and you know, it's interesting when you there's phases when you learn something, right? There's learning to do it and then there's learning to do it really well and then there's learning to teach it and then there's learning to teach it really well. And so I'm on the I still feel like this year on a lot of this new stuff that's covered in the new version of the book, I'm in the learning to teach it in a way that everybody gets it phase. So for example, this week I wrote a guest blog post for somebody that has a kind of popular newsletter and I spent a lot of time on it and wrote this thing and it really kind of wonky positioning article. It was fun. and I wrote it and then he's got this really big popular newsletter. So he's got like a professional editor that looks at the thing and she looked at it and was like makes no sense. I don't know structure  and I was like a damn it >> and her but her comments were very spot-on. It's a thing that I've had to do with you know all my thinking on positioning. It's like one thing to know it. It's another thing to know how to do it, but then the teaching of it is actually really hard. And so this year, I think I'm sharpening the saw on some of those things. So that's that's one thing. The other thing is that just weird luck. Like obviously I'm working with a lot of AI companies or companies doing AI stuff. Like I I think every single positioning project I'm doing right now is AI related. What's interesting about the companies I'm working with this year is a lot of them are bigger. So last year I had the beginning of the year a lot of smaller companies, but towards the end of the year a lot of bigger companies. This year I've got some enormous companies that have really sophisticated enterprisegrade AI stuff that they're trying to position in the market. And that I think has been really interesting to me to just see the difference between folks that are shipping stuff that is a bit more it's for a market of tinkerers. A lot of AI stuff that's coming out right now is muck around with this. Build your own things with this. It's for developers. It's for tinkerers. It's for people that are trying to do cool stuff with AI. It's for people that couldn't do stuff without this tool, but now they have this tool and they can tinker around and do this thing, which is great. And so I worked with a bunch of companies like that last year, but this year I'm feeling like there's a shift. And a lot of the companies calling me are like, we got an enterprisegrade thing that we need big companies to pay big money for and this thing needs to work and it needs to replace workflows and software, traditional software inside the enterprise right now. And that is a different thing. And it's been interesting to see that evolution in AI in the last couple of years that we've started from all everything's like a tool for tinkerers and now we're getting closer into the meat. Where does this stuff really start making an impact on bigger enterprise businesses? So that's going to be interesting for me to work with companies on that this year. >> That's exciting. Well, stay tuned. >> Oh yeah. So much I'll tell you one thing. So much security and compliance. Like one of the biggest things is stopping bigger enterprises from adopting this AI stuff is worries about compliance and security. And I think we are finally getting to a stage where some of the bigger companies that understand enterprise compliance stuff, understand enterprise security are now getting this AI stuff really enterprise ready. And so that's going to be interesting this year. >> Well, stay tuned. I appreciate you so much for coming on and sharing your wisdom. We're going to link so everybody can find you and follow you below. And I hope you have a fabulous rest of your day. >> Thanks so much for having me. This has been great. >> Yeah. Talk to you soon."
}
